# Week 2

This was a week of Ruby tutorials and koans.  Each day starts off with a few
koans, then I move onto a few tutorials and this repeats until my brain can’t
take anymore or 4 o’clock hits. I currently have a love hate relationship with
codeschool. I’m not the biggest fan of their format. I felt like the Ruby Bits
threw too much information into each section and sometimes assumes that I have
the basics down on their challenges. I switched to treehouse on Wednesday,
starting from the beginning of their “Learn Ruby” course. For some reason,
treehouse spoke my language and though at times it seems basic, it provides more
hands on coding with each section. In addition to the koans and tutorials, I
started a Ruby Hello-World app, that I’ve been expanding with each new concept
and type that I’ve covered.

I appreciate that all these exercises are building on each other.  Last week was
a commandline/linux culture shock. The muscle memory and comfort is quickly
building as I’m making multiple pushes to my ruby-koans repository daily. Daniel
and Brain’s version control lesson was also very informative in clarifying
branches and pull requests.
 
# Week 3

Week of Jan 25-29 (3rd week)

This week was about wrapping up Phase 1 assignments.  CodeSchool Ruby Bits 1 and
2 are officially completed. The end of Ruby Bits 2 was ROUGH.  I could see value
in going through both tutorials again, just to forget the struggle of my first
round ( :grin: ). We learned about testing this week. Created a few unit tests
as a group. I was later able to implement Ryan’s suggestion of passing the
console into my classes that would allow me to test cases where user input is
required.

I started the week off building a simple application to put some of the concepts
from the tutorials to use. I placed a constraint on myself to use the least
amount of conditional checks as possible. I had a working mini game application
but I wasn’t very happy with how it was organized, so I organized a pairing with
Yock.

Nate joined as we dissected my game.  My class was having identity issues. It
was also being overworked. The three of us broke out the pieces into groups that
made a lot more sense. We ended with a main class that was the interface with
the 3 availables games.  Each game is their own class, since each have no
business with the other. It’s now very manageable and easily expandable.
(https://github.com/boomingbrake/hello-world).  I’m happy with the product. It
was a great lesson in how all these objects become aware of each other. Knowing
something's place in the big picture and how I communicate with it helps me
fully understand it’s job.  Example:  “include” and “require” methods allow me
to make the files aware of each other.

I’m making my way through Passionate Programmer.  I enjoy the format. I like how
it’s broken up into tips, which provides perfect breaks for reflection. One that
really stuck out to me, “Be the worst.”  It’s brilliant! We set goals by the
people we surround ourselves, if you’re surrounded by the best, you have to be
better to even hang. This book has also brought up some discussion in the group.
I’ve had first hand experience with people who are in this field for reasons
other than passion. I spoke of a culture shock in my first journal entry,
Sparkbox culture was truly bizarre. Very welcome type of bizarre, but it was a
shock. Instead of handing me tickets and deadlines, Cromwell is challenging me
to find gems. It’s amazing.
